If you're thinking of buying a computer, you
may have wondered: Is a laptop right for me?
Depending on how you plan to use it, the answer
may be "yes."
In this video, we'll look at some of the ways
that a laptop is different from a desktop,
to help you decide.
The biggest difference is portability.
Laptops have to be small and light so that
you can pick them up and take them with you.
Since all of the basic parts are built-in,
setting up a laptop is as easy as opening
it.
The downside is that the monitor is usually
smaller than a desktop monitor, so you'll
have less screen space.
Another important difference is that laptops
use a battery.
The battery can provide power to the laptop
when you're on the go, and it will recharge
whenever it's plugged in.
An added benefit of having a battery is that
if the power goes out, the battery can work
as a backup power source.
Instead of a mouse, laptops usually have a
built-in touchpad, also known as a trackpad.
You can control the pointer on the screen
by using a drawing motion with your finger.
If you haven't used a touchpad before, the
experience is a little bit different from
using a mouse, and it may take a while to
get used to.
If you're buying a desktop computer, you can
mix and match almost any monitor, keyboard,
and mouse that you want.
With a laptop, you won't have quite as much
freedom, since everything is built-in.
However, if you want to have the best of both
worlds, you can use your laptop's ports to
connect a separate monitor, keyboard, and
mouse -- basically turning your laptop into
a desktop.
And of course, whenever you want to, you can
simply disconnect everything and take your
laptop with you.
As you can see, there are some important differences
between laptops and desktops.
So depending on your preferences, you can
decide which one best suits your needs.